README.md, before:

# collectsphere
This is a Collectd Plugin for VMware vSphere. It fetches performance data via the vSphere API at very good performance
which makes it suitable for medium to large environments.

## Installation
Run
> python setup.py install

This would install the collectsphere module. Add the `collectsphere.conf ` in the including collect configuration folder
or add this to the collectd configuration file:
```
<LoadPlugin "python">
    Globals true
</LoadPlugin>

<Plugin "python">
    Import "collectsphere"
    <Module "collectsphere">
        Name "SOME_NAME"
        Host "FQDN"
        Port "443"
        Verbose "True"
        VerifyCertificate "True"
        Username "USERNAME"
        Password "PASSWORD"
        Host_Counters "cpu.usage,mem.usage,disk.usage"
        VM_Counters "cpu.usage,mem.usage"
    </Module>
</Plugin>
```


## Configuration
Key | Description
 --- | ---
**Name** | The `Name` is a name for the environment. At the moment this is only used for internal usage.
**Host** | The `Host` is the FQDN of the vSphere or an IP, e.g. *vsphere.local* or *10.0.0.10*. 
**Port** | The Port is the same port as the vSphere web client access port.
**VerifyCertificate** | When using self-signed certificates set this option to False
**Username** | A user with `System.View` privileges.
**Password** | Password for user authentication
**Counters** | ;TBD

## Features
- Fetch ESXi host metrics
- Fetch VM metrics
- Awareness of VMware HA/DRS clusters
- Very good performance
- Automatic inventory discovery

## Testing
Development and testing was conducted with ...
- vSphere version: 5.5
- vCenter type: linux appliance 

## Why Collectd?
A Collectd plugin allows to use existing infrastructure in collectd to start/stop/execute the plugin and forward values
to existing backends. Like this you can easily send the information gathered to for example Graphite and create nice
looking dashboards with e.g. Grafana. (This was the primary goal of this project.)

# Screenshot from Grafana
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/evoila/collectsphere/master/screenshots/vms-view.png)

Commit message:

Added friendly name support Added vmware.types.db for collectsphere defined metric types Code formatted Extended README with friendly name preferences,  Graphite usage, and naming schema

README.md, after:

# collectsphere
This is a Collectd Plugin for VMware vSphere. It fetches performance data via the vSphere API at very good performance
which makes it suitable for medium to large environments.

## Installation
Run
> python setup.py install

This would install the collectsphere module. Add the `collectsphere.conf ` in the including collect configuration folder
or add this to the collectd configuration file:
```
TypesDB "./vmware.types.db"


<LoadPlugin "python">
    Globals true
</LoadPlugin>

<Plugin "python">
    Import "collectsphere"
    <Module "collectsphere">
        Name "SOME_NAME"
        Host "FQDN"
        Port "443"
        Verbose true
        VerifyCertificate true
        UseFriendlyName false
        Username "USERNAME"
        Password "PASSWORD"
        Host_Counters "cpu.usage,mem.usage,disk.usage"
        VM_Counters "cpu.usage,mem.usage"
    </Module>
</Plugin>
```
Please note there is a sepcial TypesDB for collectsphere. Change the path in the first line to the `vmware.types.db` file.



## Configuration
Key | Description
 --- | ---
**Name** | The `Name` is a name for the environment. At the moment this is only used for internal usage.
**Host** | The `Host` is the FQDN of the vSphere or an IP, e.g. *vsphere.local* or *10.0.0.10*. 
**Port** | The `Port is the same port as the vSphere web client access port.
**VerifyCertificate** | When using self-signed certificates set this option to false
**UseFriendlyName** | Instead of the internal VMware Managed Object ID, you can use friendly names, which are the names of the entity for mnonitoring. <br> *Be careful, when instances have the same name, they could not divided anymore*
**Username** | A user with `System.View` privileges.
**Password** | Password for user authentication
**Counters** | ;TBD

### Graphite
If you use the [write_graphite](https://collectd.org/documentation/manpages/collectd.conf.5.shtml#plugin_write_graphite)-plugin of collectd, it is helpful to use the following configuration with it:
```
EscapeCharacter "."
SeparateInstances true
```
## Naming schema
We are using the following naming schema for the type in collectsphere:
`< collectsphere_host >/collectsphere/< VMware-Type in vmware.types.db >-< Cluster >.< Host|VM >.< metric-instance >`
All non alphamerically chars would be replaced with undescore.
For more information see [collectd Naming schema](https://collectd.org/wiki/index.php/Naming_schema)

## Features
- Fetch ESXi host metrics
- Fetch VM metrics
- Awareness of VMware HA/DRS clusters
- Very good performance
- Automatic inventory discovery

## Testing
Development and testing was conducted with ...
- vSphere version: 5.5
- vCenter type: linux appliance 

## Why Collectd?
A Collectd plugin allows to use existing infrastructure in collectd to start/stop/execute the plugin and forward values
to existing backends. Like this you can easily send the information gathered to for example Graphite and create nice
looking dashboards with e.g. Grafana. (This was the primary goal of this project.)

# Screenshot from Grafana
![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/evoila/collectsphere/master/screenshots/vms-view.png)
